foreign
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
we just got our Spotify statistics back
for the year and we are in the top one
percent most shared podcasts for 2022
globally oh wow and that is fascinating
I love that
and also we are in the top five percent
most followed globally already that's so
cool and that's just incredible and
we've had over 500 growth of listeners
over the past year over 5x so I'm just
so stoked about that I'm really I'm
really excited that people have been
sharing the podcast that people have
been loving it and another another stat
that we got from Spotify is that the The
Listener type of our listeners is the
devote uh which is to say that our
listeners tend to binge the podcast and
listen to the same episodes over and
over because they just really love them
and yeah yeah that just blows me away
I'm so grateful that that people really
like what we're doing and that that
people share it so much so thank you
everybody
that's amazing so first of all it just
creates a lot of gratitude for The
Listener so I want to just thank
everybody for for sharing
the podcast that's amazing and I I mean
it's almost ridiculous it's not like a a
low it's not like a low self-esteem
thing I'm just dumbfounded that people
are are into it like this and I and I I
mean it's funny because you know I we
listen to every podcast before it gets
published and I'm like oh that's good I
I would enjoy listening to that but
still somehow or another like in my
brain I'm like I'm just like wow this is
happening people dig it which is
which is really cool
it's a cool feeling yeah so
um on that note of gratitude and thank
you we're gonna take this episode as an
opportunity to answer some questions
um that people have have asked last week
I posted on our Twitter and in our
Circle Community to ask for people to
just send us whatever whatever their
whatever kind of questions they're
sitting with whatever they're struggling
with and we've got a pretty solid list
here
fantastic okay cool I love this idea of
a Thank You by answering some some
questions so let's dive in uh first one
that we have is from Laura
uh with an E Laurie Laura and she says
I've noticed myself changing a lot
through the view practice as well as
other adjacent growth practices I still
struggle with the concept of not having
anger at in theory it seems very correct
and healthy but I'm not sure what to do
when the feeling of anger at does arise
and she's referring to anger at people
something that we've discussed a lot in
sort of the courses in the uh anger
episodes so she continues I'm curious if
you can speak to the difference if you
see one between feeling anger at and
expressing it and how can I be both
welcoming to my feelings but also know
that's not an okay feeling
uh-huh and then how do I negotiate
having the feeling not suppressing or
denying it but also knowing it's not
okay and is it possible to never feel
angry at
Okay cool so answer is no I don't know
if it's possible but I I don't know
anybody who doesn't have that experience
of anger at and there's no way I would
want you to repress that internal
emotional state and I apologize if for
whatever in whatever way I've
miscommunicated so that you
feel like there's some part of your
emotional state that you aren't allowed
to love or more accept
what I'm saying there is the action of
getting angry at somebody
and and I'll be even more specific it's
angry at somebody without permission so
sometimes Tara and I will give each
other permission we'll see the anger and
we'll be like yeah it's okay or in um
when we're coaching people or in
Retreats we'll say yeah get angry at us
it's fine and we're excited to do that
because there can be a lot of healing in
that
however
without permission then it's just
manipulation and whether it's
subconscious or not conscious or fully
conscious
basically what's happening there is
somebody feels out of control if they
get angry at somebody else it's their
bid for control and that usually means
controlling the other person
so
so that's what I'm speaking to is just
not getting angry at somebody without
permission
yeah I like the the distinction that
you've made there about like angry at
being manipulating so it's like one way
to tell is if if my anger is moving
through me and as a result or as a as an
action from that anger I'm trying to
change the other person change their
beliefs or their story be above them
dominate them make them take an action
make them feel scared make them back
away make them be anything then that's
that's an example of
manipulating and so like what I've been
finding through this work is that if if
I'm allowing that that anger to move in
me and I'm just feeling it and I'm it's
like it's my anger it's it's not their
anger it's not for them it's for me it's
for that anger is for
myself to
feel that feeling and let it burn
through whatever story I have so that I
can find my clarity and then from there
I can go to the person yeah yeah that's
right and and so the weird thing is that
though most of the time when we are
angry we are angry at something the
anger is all about us so the anger is
us feeling overwhelmed or the anger is
US needing to draw a boundary or the
anger is
um us uh learning how to not be passive
aggressive there's a whole bunch of
reasons for it that doesn't mean you're
responsible for getting angry so if
you're angry you can beat yourself up
that's not what I'm saying I'm just
saying that the anger is exactly what
you said it's for us to learn
and it's not about the other person
and at the same time I know you've
experienced this where if you can hold
somebody's anger if you want to hold
somebody's anger and they're getting
angry it can be an incredibly healing
thing
um to be able to learn inside of
yourself how to hold somebody in love
when they're angry at you it's like
feels like a superpower yeah and in the
reverse when when I've had a partner or
a business partner or somebody who's
been able to hold my just
wild rage at them and just love me then
that's been an example like those have
been times where our relationship has
gone way deeper and also that's not a
requirement like yes that's not a
relationship test can you hold this can
you handle my anger it's just like if
someone's capable of doing that then
great I feel even safer I could be even
more of myself and that also makes me
value the relationship more and also
more want to own my part and find the
boundaries that serve both of us
yes yeah that's right and and you said
it really well
um it's not a relationship test it's not
I should be able to be with this anger I
should be able to be in this abusive
relationship or they should be able to
handle my anger or any of that stuff
it's do you want to be there for
somebody's anger because maybe you don't
due to your own trauma maybe you don't
due to it's habitual maybe you don't
because you don't have enough resources
that day maybe you don't because you're
tired maybe you know because it hits
your trauma so it's really just about
whether you want to and and so don't
really make it about anything besides
that yeah and I've noticed part of that
Journey that I've had with anger in this
work is that initially I was like oh if
I can be there for someone's anger then
that's great so it becomes a should like
I should be there for their anger or
like I should want their anger but when
it starts to become more like I guess
authentically a want for me is when I'm
like
there's actually deep wisdom in their
anger and there's care in it and if I'm
actually feeling and seeing their care
while the anger is coming up then yeah
then it is a really a deeply thing a
thing that's deeply connected to my want
and it's not a here's a model of the way
I want to be or should be to be better
about whatever this is and make this
make this problem go away you know make
you make my own anger feelings go away
exactly yeah
beautiful yeah there's a there's another
another piece there about making your
anger about somebody else which is one
way to describe anger at is like your
anger is about somebody else and in our
courses there are times where that's
that's invited you know we do exercises
around this and and there's sort of a
process where you might initially not
allow yourself to feel the anger because
it's not safe and so it's suppressed and
comes out sideways through passive
aggression yeah and then the next step
is to actually recognize that you have
anger and in that state you might only
be capable of experiencing the anger all
about what it the external thing you
think it is or the person and so the
only anger you're capable of feeling at
that time perhaps is the is the what we
describe as anger at oh yeah yeah I mean
I would say somebody who's been
self-abusive for a long time beating
themselves up has a deep critical voice
in the head always is wondering what
they did wrong when somebody else gets
angry all that stuff depression
they need to get angry at somebody
that's a really important step in that
process to just be able to fully allow
that emotional experience to just move
and maybe as you guys will hear I did a
session that'll be hopefully we'll make
it to the podcast where it was like a
couple getting had found out they were
getting aggravated other when each other
when they were really just angry at the
situation and they could share in
getting angry at the situation together
so yeah I highly recommend for people
who are self-abusive to move the anger
out and if that's at somebody or at God
or at me or at you do it just do it do
it either with permission or do it
somewhere where that person can't hear
you or or know that it's happening
because it's not it's not their job to
hold your anger they can do it but it's
not their job yeah I find a friend to
vent and find it find the friend that
will let you vent and not buy your story
and reinforce it for you but the the
friend who will just let you vent or the
pillow that will
receive your venting yeah exactly cool
what's the next question that was a good
one yeah yeah thanks for asking it Laura
okay so the next next question we have
is from Eric
and Eric says I find that I struggle way
more when trying to connect in group
situations I know that staying in view
is important though for me it's harder
to be both attentive in the conversation
and present in my body without ignoring
one or the other
and so he asks what advice do you have
for staying in view during fast-paced
and complex group conversations
yeah so there's a part of the answer
which is just practice as we learn how
to do it it it becomes easier and easier
I think that there's a secondary thing
which is there I think there's a
distinction there you might not be seen
it's very easy to be in view and be
present with what somebody is is saying
or doing that part of it is
easy for everybody in fact I would say
being in view makes it easier to be
present with people
the thing that you might not be seeing
is that the tricky part is
responding it's it's the it's the
speaking it's the uh being able to
um
interact with them which you're saying
it in the sentence Eric but I'm not sure
if that distinction has been fully made
in yourself so that's the part that as
you practice it becomes easier and
easier to do
what I would say is that typically when
it's hard for someone to do those things
there there's a concern about being
right doing it right or doing it in a
way that's gonna get the result that you
want and so I would check the partiality
uh in the view so the I and view
that oftentimes it's that partiality
about wanting to be liked or wanting to
be seen a certain way or wanting not to
be hated or wanting not to be ostracized
that gets in the way of our capacity to
respond we're judging ourselves in our
response and so
I would use the tools that you've
learned
to learn how to let go of that
the consequences and to let go of the
self-judgment and one of the tools that
I think is most useful is that when you
notice that you judge yourself
see what the emotion is that it's
protecting you from typically when we're
judging ourselves or somebody else it's
because we don't want to feel an emotion
that's underneath it and so if you fully
allow that feeling of
whether it's ostracization or
aloneness or
you know the perfectionism or the the
rigidity if we fully allow the emotional
experience underneath the Judgment then
that'll allow you to have a more free
expression
it's judgment that gets in the way of
our expression typically
yeah I think one of the ways that that
shows up for for me in the way that kind
of I've progressed through the work is I
think a lot of people are used to when
they're in a conversation thinking about
what they're going to say next and doing
a lot of kind of intellectual this might
not be for everybody some people might
just be feeling and not doing so much
intellectual but for me I've noticed
that I I used to do a lot of thinking
about the topic of conversation and plan
my next statement or sentence or
question a lot more than I do now and
that by bringing more attention in my
body
that that signal became reduced and
started to be mixed with these like much
more fuzzy emotional signals in my body
and initially that started to be a
little bit uh disorienting it's like I
don't know what question is going to
come out of me next because
I'm not spending as much of my you know
Awareness on calculating the next thing
to say which means that I'm actually
receiving what they're saying
and the next thing that I say is likely
to be far more connected to both of us
and the conversation but I might not
have any idea what it's going to be
until I speak it which can be just kind
of disconcerting and disorienting at
first at first yeah yeah and I would say
the other the other way to to
point this out in a way that's useful as
far as a hack is just focus on enjoying
yourself not on the results of the group
interaction
how do I enjoy this group interaction
this fast-based group interaction how do
you enjoy that I would say that's the if
you can focus there a lot of this stuff
goes away naturally yeah that's an
awesome pointer
cool yeah another question I like this
this is fun yeah yeah I'm enjoying it
yeah all right next one comes from cat
uh he asks can you talk about depression
what is depression and how do I play
with it I love that question of that
question
yeah I can totally talk about this I
love this question okay so depression
intellectually on the let's use the
three Minds for a minute on the
intellectual prefrontal cortex mind it
is uh negative self-talk it is uh an
abnormal amount of negative self-talk
abnormal just meaning high enough to
make you get depressed on a emotional
level it's a repressed anger typically
um sometimes repressed sadness but often
repressed anger
the anger is going in instead of the
anger is going out or moving through
uh so and then on a nervous system it's
constantly attentive to
um the next foot that's going to fall
the next attack
so on the nervous system you're
constantly and and it's by the way
always coming because internally your
head is beating you up all the time so
the attack is constantly coming
so you're constantly looking for it so
it's a constant diligence
which is why antidepressant and
anti-anxiety medicines are often used to
treat depression because it's about that
you know that's the nervous system side
of it and then on a on a community side
of it it's a it's a disconnection it's a
feeling of disconnection with people so
it's it's feeling not feeling like
you're connected with each other and so
you can work on depression on all those
levels so interacting with people
um and making sure that you have a like
a rich
social life is a great way to work with
it
um
moving the emotions the anger and the
sadness
um is a great way to work with it uh
notice that the voice in your head is
absolute and that it it's not
true and that it's not serving you it's
not a good boss
um there's a whole bunch of tools that
you can use for the critical voice in
your head
and for the nervous system learning to
have a deep non-guilty pleasure and
sustain it how do you be in pleasure the
pleasure of breathing the pleasure of
walking the pleasure of hearing the your
vocal cords vibrate in your in your
chest like that like that life in its
Essence is very pleasurable very
enjoyable and so how do you learn how to
rest in that pleasure and enjoyment
those are the techniques that I've seen
allow folks to move through depression
now there's obviously there's some level
of
chemical stuff happening in the brain
and and I'm not suggesting that for some
folks medicinal treatments aren't great
and this is basically how it works and
so the if you're working on it with with
medicines or without medicines this is
these are the ways I would suggest it
yeah I love that uh the piece about
anger where you know if the anger's
stagnant or not moving this can lead to
depression and also that the it often
results from the anger being turned
inwards yeah I've come to see anger as
you know like connected to
like a broader sense aggression and on
an even broader sense motivation Eros
like our capacity to move towards and
like want something and if I'm spending
a significant amount of that energy on
telling myself how to be then it's like
I might be like oh where's all my
motivation I don't have motivation but
all of my motivation is actually going
telling yourself how to be telling
myself how to be and beating myself up
and of course I'm going to be tired all
day and exhausted and need to recover
from that on a regular basis I've never
heard it articulated like that is such a
great articulation of it yeah you're
very motivated to beat yourself up what
do you mean you don't have motivation
it's like a full-time job you might not
even be sleeping you're so into it you
wake up in the middle of the night
beating yourself up they think that's
total motivation do you know the amount
of willpower it takes to beat yourself
up like that 24 7. yeah I love this yeah
that's great yeah so back to cat's
question of how do I play with it it's
like how much how much can you enjoy
beating your yourself up and like then
what does that do to it what does that
do if you're like oh I notice I'm
beating myself up here's my motivation
High motivation
what happens then the other thing that I
the play with it I mean you've seen me
do this in in in different groups so
notice that when the negative voice in
your head speaks to you in a certain way
um you respond almost always in the same
way so it's like you know you should you
should work out more you should be nicer
to people and your your response is
typically just kind of accepting it as
truth and kind of maybe there's like a
okay fine you're right you know there's
some energetic response to it you want
to play with it
have different responses to it
every time it does it sing in a musical
you know every every time it does it
just be like you know call it the
politician that you hate the most and
and make a nickname for it or play with
it or tickle it or love it or see it as
a little kid who's having a temper
tantrum and you just need to hold it
like that's a great way to play with it
um it's to really not take the voice in
your head seriously
the critical voice in your head
seriously yeah
yeah I love that one yeah cool awesome
thank you thank you I'm excited I'm
going to keep on doing yeah thank you
Kat I appreciate that oh and Eric do we
I don't think we think I don't think we
thank Derek thank you Eric for your
question too yeah
all right next question comes from
Dominique hi Dominique Dominique says
the more I do the work the more
connected I feel the more alone I am
what is that all about
continues I don't feel loneliness but a
very strong and distinct self I am all
alone is this a contradiction feeling
connected yet more alone or simply a
more nuanced and distinct understanding
of self across a number of identities
one chooses
hmm that's a great question uh I mean
there's like three questions in there so
yeah so the more that you do this work
the more you do any self-discovery work
the more the truth comes out and the
truth is that we're alone nobody can
share it no matter how much you love no
matter how close you are to somebody
nobody can share your experience with
you
so that we are alone in that so
that reality is true and I love that
you're making that distinction between
that and loneliness
um
that it's not the feeling of loneliness
so that's that's a wonderful thing then
then you start speaking about it you
know it's an identity and it feels like
it's an identity and so
unfortunately that that it's not as
clear as that what I've noticed is
when I fully allow that identity of
aloneness or the the identity that is
that permeates behind all the other
identities that's one way to say it or
the thing that I have always been that I
will always be
you know even though my body has changed
even though my habits have changed even
though my thoughts are changing even
though my emotional state is changing
like what is the essential me
um what I notice is that both makes me
have a firmer sense of identity and less
of an identity eventually there's it's
like my identity becomes more
transparent more fluid on one level and
it becomes more
clear in myself in another level more
solid almost in another level
and so
if you get into it really deeply then
the question becomes what am I
and that question isn't really an
answerable question that's a question
that you're just in until it illuminates
and
um dissolves almost and what there's a
there's a couple Sensations that happen
when you are in that question for
a period of time one is the sensation of
I am everything and one is a sensation
of I'm nothing like a piece of dust in
the Infinity of space and I am all of
space and so both of those are felt
experiences that one has when you're in
that question for an extended period of
time and it's the same feeling of I
guess a sense of aloneness without
loneliness or the same feeling of oh I
have a very strong identity but actually
kind of no identity at all
and so there's a bit of a paradox in it
until it's lived and then there's no
Paradox in it at all
so I would just say that where I hear
you are is just in the natural flow of
finding out what you are essentially or
what your authenticity is or what you've
always been that can't be changed that
can't be destroyed the thing that you
don't have to protect
I love that too and
rather than respond to that myself I'm
going to leave that right into the next
question because I think that this one
follows it beautifully okay and so thank
you Dominique and thank you and now this
question from Dustin
as I worked to release judgments and
forgive myself and others drawing and
holding respectful boundaries I feel
good maybe not Enlightenment but a more
Lucid State of Consciousness in this
state however I find it difficult to
discern or follow my desires and
passions as though they become more
diffuse this leaves me somewhat immobile
with regard to taking action on
something new or different
what happens to desire in this above
mess in this in this hole
in this above meth
um yeah
so
that's a great question it was a great
question
um
so the question I would ask back is how
do you know that your
that your desires are becoming more
diffuse or
your desires are changing
and and they're they're you're finding
your more authentic desires I guess that
would be the question
so and one of the ways you can answer
this question is to notice from the
moment you wake up until 10 o'clock in
the morning or two hours later whenever
you wake up that you have made a hundred
choices with a hundred preferences by
that time so there's something that's
not diffuse happening there's this
constant moving towards preferences that
happens and so there's Clarity of
preference
the otherwise you'd just be in bed and
even that may be a preference right so
so on some level the the question is is
are they becoming more diffuse or are
you
learning to listen to yourself
differently and therefore
don't understand like the really big
movements or that you're
in a period of integration not in the
period of action or you're in an inhale
not an exhale at this moment
because what I notice is that as we
start to see the world differently and
interact with the world differently our
desires change
and the way I would say this is you know
when Tara and I first dated she was
remarkably beautiful and and young and
everything society would say is is
amazing
and I would have like these little
nitpicky things in my mind around
you know this curve or that you know
that thing or you know whatever it was
this part of her body and
and
now I am
you know we are older and we're both
middle aged and we don't look like we
did when we were 20. and I can't find
any fault in her when I look at her
what I thought what I wanted then is not
at all what I want now and so my wants
have changed over time and it's more
reflection of the work that I do and so
if I used to be motivated by
finding the perfect body to be with I'm
no longer motivated by that and what I
want has completely changed
and during that there's this moment of
going out and acting and doing the
experiments to see what I want there's a
moment of integration of what I've
learned and seeing how my how my
motivation my wants change
and so I that's that I would I would say
experiment and play with that see see
how true that is for you uh the only
piece I would add potentially is
it doesn't sound like this at all
through your question but what might be
happening is that
um you were really operating on
adrenaline for a long time you were
really operating on pushing yourself and
oh my God I have to I did it and as that
subsides you just need to rest
you're just gonna need to like let the
nervous system recover before you're
ready to go and and you know
dig your next big well or or you know
start your next company or whatever it
is
yeah I think what what that brings up
for me is that I think a lot of us have
been used to for much of our Lives
associating wanting with craving and
when the craving Falls away we wonder
where the wanting is but there's still
wants there and I think this also
relates back to Dominique's previous
question I think a lot of times we
we conflate connection with clinging
yeah and when we find ourselves no
longer clinging and craving craving
something from somebody then we might
feel more alone but not lonely
and this might be confusing at first but
I think both of these questions seem
very related in that way yeah I love
that yeah I think that all of our
emotional states as we learn to love
them
um as we're not resisting them
as we're not putting tension in the line
and letting them move through they all
become less intense and sometimes we're
like that's a relief and sometimes we're
like wait where'd that go
yeah yeah and then which doesn't mean
that life is less intense it just might
mean the intensity moves to something
else that we're not used to experiencing
intensely like Joy that's right that's
right that's exactly right or intensely
enjoying feeling sadness right or like
all of a sudden the thing that was like
I could live with because I didn't feel
it as intensely now I can't live with
and so there's the intensity of
of being more sensitive
yeah yeah
awesome thank you Dustin
and the next question we've got is from
Calvin
all right
um
Calvin he asks about approaching
relationships with people who have
mental health issues and his question
was actually quite long a couple
paragraphs so I'm kind of cutting it
down but in in it he described a close
relative with whom he used to connect
very deeply but he's struggled to do so
as their mental health has changed
um and kind of without going into
details about what that was uh he he
asks how do I approach relationships
with people who are struggling with
their mental health what can I do for
them and what can I do for myself
oh that's great
so you know there are probably better
people to ask that question to than me
um I don't I don't deal with a lot of
folks who
I've had some uh have mental health
issues in my friend group and family but
I don't it hasn't been something that I
have a ton of experience with but one of
the things that I definitely realize in
that process was
if I have a friend who had an injury and
is in a in you know in a is paralyzed
I'm not
gonna go for walks with him anymore
uh
so
your expect your friendship is going to
change and if your friend is going
through mental health you can't expect
them to
depending on the mental health thing be
rational or to be able to be connected
with you in the same way or
be able to
not get paranoid around you or whatever
the situation is or be
even like in this reality so to speak so
I think the
the main thing is to let go of those
expectations of them and and and the the
challenging part for that is typically
you see this happen with people with
Alzheimer's all the time it's like
there's a dad
and a mom and there's kids and the dad
let's say gets Alzheimer's and they're
not even closer as functional they can't
say the same things but everybody's
treating them the same way everybody's
like oh that's dad I have to be scared
of his anger so I'm gonna do whatever he
says but the guy's got Alzheimer's you
shouldn't be doing what he says you
shouldn't probably shouldn't have been
before but like and so
you're interacting with them as if
they're still coherent when they're not
coherent and so I think there's a lot of
relief to be had in recognizing that
they they have had their their issue and
you need to interact with them
differently I think that's a really big
thing
and
and there's no possible way for you to
be good for them if you're not being
good for yourself so self-care is an
incredibly important part of that
process it's you know you don't want to
enter into their mental health with them
you want to make sure that you are
taking care of yourself and your own
mental health in that process and it's
really critical because just like if all
of a sudden
you're living with somebody who needs
you to cook for them and clean for them
and wipe them and all that stuff it's
going to take a lot it's going to take a
lot
if you're all of a sudden dealing with
somebody who's you know constantly
walking around the house thinking that
there's bugs in the wall that are
listening to them
so that self-care is an incredibly
crucial piece to it
um and then the last thing is go find a
professional who can help you it's
really important to find a professional
who can help them and to help you and
right now that's hard in our society
because there's you know there's a lot
of mental health issues because of the
covid situation and
and there's not as many people I've
heard statistics that it's like there's
just not enough therapists out there or
not enough psychiatrists out there for
the people who need it
um but do whatever you have to do to
find that that help whether even if it's
just online reading but do everything
you can to get that help and to really
understand and find the resources to
help you
yeah it sounds like a lot a lot of what
you're speaking to there is grieving the
connection
that you had so that you can find the
connection that is available
and like How Deeply can you connect to
the person as they are
and stay with yourself and your needs
without sacrificing yourself that's
right yeah you're not doing anybody any
good by sacrificing yourself in it
and eventually if you do sacrifice
yourself in it long enough either you're
gonna join them in the kind of in their
swirl or
you're gonna just resent them and lash
out at some point neither of which is
going to feel good awesome thank you Joe
thank you Calvin you know there's one
other piece just for Calvin here is that
I would say boundaries are really an
important process so listen to the
boundary
thing boundaries are really important
with mental health it's like some of the
biggest part of the self-care is the
boundaries
yeah it reminds me of something you've
you've mentioned before where like a lot
of the addicts anonymous groups have
groups for the people who are
supporting or
like in entangled and I think the same
thing can be true for mental health uh
yeah like you need you need support
yes exactly
yeah um all right thank you Calvin
and the next one comes from Bryce and
Bryce asks what does it mean or look
like to be patient with our own growth
process and what are some practices that
can help with patients
uh
that's a lovely question
I don't know it's such an interesting
question
the the reason it's interesting is
because I'm wondering what the question
would be like if you asked me what is it
like to be patient with somebody else
and how that question is hard to make
sense of it's hard to make sense of how
do you be patient with yourself
um but what I notice is that if we think
we're if we're trying to be patient
we're not
that's what I noticed like the act of
trying to be patient is not patience
um
so so you're kind of asking me how to be
patient but there's also kind of the
question in there which is like how do I
try to be patient so I want to just make
that distinction distinction so don't
try to be patient with yourself it it
isn't patience
um what I would say is
maybe the word that's more easy is is
gentleness how do you be gentle with
yourself
and
be in general with yourself is
um
being grateful for the transformation
that's been happening and that also
accelerates the transformation and the
growth so for me the the biggest hack in
all of this is to
regularly
daily
give yourself gratitude for the
transformation that's been happening
that is happening the little Winds of
the day the little ways that you saw
things differently that day
the little habits that you didn't do for
a day even if you do them tomorrow
how do you give yourself that the the
encouragement that isn't meant to fix
you but just the acknowledgment the
encouragement that is just
acknowledgment of what you have done
growth transformation is easier
if if we feel good about what we're
doing right so if I'm like okay I've
done 100 push-ups I need to do more
push-ups okay
[Music]
doing push-ups isn't fun if I'm like I
did 100 push-ups hell yes I'm more
likely wanting to do push-ups the next
day so how do you
give yourself the Gratitude and it
doesn't have to be yay it can just be
like wow thank you Bryce for
showing up again today and noticing that
these thought patterns were getting in
your way and how and thank you for being
here doing this gratitude practice again
and thank you for asking Joe a question
and thank you for
um I know I believe Bryce meditates so
meditation and
so to me it's like how do you be
grateful for the transformation that
you're having and see the abundance of
that and and see that it's constantly
happening around you
to me that's the best hack
yeah
yeah I have nothing to add to that
that's
really nice
um awesome thank you Bryce uh and I
think that's it for today we have some
more questions maybe we'll get around to
them on another episode uh if you if you
submitted a question and we didn't get
to it I apologize uh I'd love to get to
it
yeah and and if you have a question out
there and you didn't know this was
possible please drop the question what
where are the ways they can drop them is
it
you can tweet them to us at on Twitter
at Art of a comp
and you can ask them on Circle if you're
in any of our Circle communities
and you can also email them to us at
podcast art of accomplishment.com
and then Instagram too so you can find
us on Instagram
and you can pose a question there as
well
so hopefully we'll make a practice of
this if we get enough good questions
we'll we'll keep on answering them here
yeah I'd love to do this monthly or
something or maybe even more if we start
getting floods of questions yeah that
sounds great awesome okay thank you
everybody thank you listeners thank you
all the people who've been sharing this
yeah thank you thank you for for helping
those
helping the share numbers and the growth
numbers that just feels wonderful
appreciate that yeah and thank you Joe I
appreciate you yeah thank you Brett ciao
bye
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]